README.md, before:

﻿# jsprolog

### What is it?

It's a simple Prolog interpreter written with javascript (ECMAScript5). I've adapted it from [Jan's javascript Prolog interpreter](http://ioctl.org/logic/prolog-latest).

### What it can do
It can solve simple stuff, but its functionality is severely limited: it has no support for operators and only 3 builtins: fail/0, call/1 and cut/0.

### How to use

Please note that the project is far from stabilization and interface will surely change at some point in future.

#### node.js: 

```
npm i jsprolog
```
#### requirejs:
In the project root:

```
npm i
grunt
```
Then grab jsprolog.js from the project root.

#### in code:

```javascript
var Prolog = require('jsprolog');
var db = Prolog.Parser.parse("member(X,[X|R]). member(X, [Y | R]) :- member(X, R)."),
    query = Prolog.Parser.parseQuery("member(X,[a,b,c]),member(Y,[1,2,3])."),
    out = {},
    result = Prolog.Solver.query(db, query, out);
```

Also refer to specs/prologSolverSpec.js for usage examples.

Commit message:

Added is/2 builtin. Added N-queen problem to tests (disabled with xit because very slow). Changed project description.

README.md, after:

﻿# jsprolog

### What is it?

It's a simple Prolog interpreter written with ECMAScript 5. I've adapted it from [Jan's javascript Prolog interpreter](http://ioctl.org/logic/prolog-latest) because I needed a convenient automated theorem proving engine in JavaScript.

### What it can do
It can solve simple stuff, for instance N-queen problem. It supports tail recursion.

### Limitations
- Parser doesn't support operators. Use function notation.
- It has a **very** limited set of built-in predicates.
- Current implementation is slow. Solving N-queen problem takes about 100 seconds on Intel i5-3570.

### How to use
#### node.js: 

```
npm i jsprolog
```
#### requirejs:
In the project root:

```
npm i
grunt
```
Then grab jsprolog.js from the project root.

#### in code:

*Please note that the project is far from stabilization and API will surely change at some point in the future.*

```javascript
var Prolog = require('jsprolog');
var db = Prolog.Parser.parse("member(X,[X|R]). member(X, [Y | R]) :- member(X, R)."),
    query = Prolog.Parser.parseQuery("member(X,[a,b,c]),member(Y,[1,2,3])."),
    out = {},
    result = Prolog.Solver.query(db, query, out);
```

Also refer to specs/prologSolverSpec.js for usage examples.

### Supported built-in predicates

Predicate | Notes
----------| -------------------------------------------------
=/2       | Doesn't support cyclic terms.
!/0       | 
fail/0    | 
call/1    | 
findall/3 | 
is/2      | Supports only +,-,/,*. Silently fails on error.
